you can generate tons of leads through
many different channels but they aren't
all equal
the real question is is paid ads or seo
better for lead generation
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
paid ads are a great way for you to get
results in the short term you can get
targeted traffic to your website from
day one but it comes at a cost
on the other hand seo can bring you
traffic to your website for free
for long periods of time so in other
words if you stop spending money on seo
you still get the traffic and if you
don't pay agency like mine np digital to
get you that traffic you can do it
yourself for free
so before we dive into which one has
better return on investment let's take a
look at the pros and cons of each of
them
pros of paid ads
fast results
as soon as you start the campaign you
can start getting clicks may not always
be profitable but you can get clicks the
data that you get from the campaigns is
amazing and you get the data fast you
can get a clear picture of which
keywords are working what are best for
you from a demographic standpoint
geography standpoint and that way you
can optimize for that in a real time
and i love the targeting with paid ads
you can have as many options with
targeting as you want from not just
being state based you can also target
city specifics or country specifics even
within a certain radius of your business
not only that you can personalize almost
each and every single
area of your segmentation that allows
you to fine-tune relevant messaging
according to each form of segmentation
and that's easy to do with paid ads
now here's the cons right we went down
the pros there are some cons as well
you have to spend money or you're not
really going to get anything from it
that's the sad part needless to say that
if you don't have the money to spend on
ads and ads aren't for you
well that's okay
but keep in mind some ads are highly
profitable if they weren't people
wouldn't keep doing them
and if you're willing to just spend a
little bit of money up front or you sign
up for some of those hosting companies
that give it to you for free
you'll be able to figure out really
quickly if you can generate money from
your paid ads but here's another con
even though you're generating revenue
from it and you can scale up really
quickly
it typically starts costing more and
more money as you scale up i'm not
talking about spending more money of
course you're going to spend money
because you're scaling up but your cost
per lead your cost per visit or your
possible conversion it keeps typically
going up as time goes on when you're
scaling up or time just goes on
you know if i go back 10 years ago cpcs
were really cheap
now they're expensive heck next year
even more expensive heck during covid
things still went up in cost the cost
per customer continually goes up and you
need to keep spending more money to
acquire customers over time and that's
why you have to optimize your funnel
so now let's break down seo
first off seo is scalable once your
efforts start paying off they usually
keep paying off as long as you just keep
doubling down and doing the right things
or at least put on maintenance mode
seo results tend to compound more over
time and the more authority your website
gets and the more authority you have in
the space
the better off you're gonna do
seo works 24 7. see what's different
about ppc and seo is the moment you stop
paying you don't get any more leads and
traffic with seo you keep getting that
traffic and you don't need to add extra
budget to keep your campaigns on daily
that could be christmas you don't have
to turn off your campaigns and those
managing the phones with seo you still
get the traffic
seo is very profitable a study conducted
by forrester consulting in 2020 showed
that the customer lifetime value is
higher with seo traffic than paid
advertising and seo is more engaging and
creates much better brand loyalty in the
long run the cost per acquisition is
much lower than paid media which makes
seo very attractive in the long run
according to hubspot 61 of b2b marketers
stated that seo and organic traffic
generated more leads than any other
marketing initiative in other words it
gets more clicks
according to word stream google ads gets
an average click-through rate of 3.17
on search and .46 on display in
comparison a study by my buddy brian
dean back in 2019 the number one result
in google's organic search gets an
average ctr of
31.7 percent
and recent data that we pulled up from
uber suggests shows that it's still
above 24
for most keywords on a global basis
now let's go over the cons because there
are kinds of seo as well first off it
takes time you want results right away
not gonna happen you want results within
three months you may get some but not
what you're looking for and it's super
competitive and it's getting more and
more competitive because it produces a
higher roi
the other issue with seo is the seo
traffic doesn't convert as well remember
to rank really well on google you tend
to have to write lots and lots of
content those pages don't convert as
well versus the page that says oh
looking for auto insurance put in your
zip code your address and click the next
button can't really do that with seo you
actually have to create content on the
page
google can abruptly also change your
algorithm and rules which can really
hurt your seo with a snap of their
fingers
google has done thousands of algorithm
updates they never release the number
but it's a lot they're releasing changes
daily you just don't know about them
because most of them are small but when
they release the big ones
boom with the snap of a finger you can
get impacted and that's a crappy part
about seo but if you do it for the long
haul you build a brand you do what's
right you shouldn't have too many issues
doesn't mean you won't get fluctuations
just means you shouldn't have too many
issues
so which one has the best roi paid as
versus seo well i'm going to illustrate
this in the context of search let's take
an example of a keyword location i live
in las vegas nevada and let's say i'm a
realtor and i want to get people to
check out my apartment listings and i
could be bidding for keywords like las
vegas apartments
according to ubercs this keyword gets
searched 33 100 times per month and
costs a dollar and 26 cents per click on
google ads
if we take word streams benchmark that i
mentioned before and we're running ads
for this keyword i can get an average
click-through rate of 3.17 percent that
means i could be getting roughly 1050
clicks per month which would be costing
me around 1 320 a month
now according to the same research by
word stream google ads get an average of
3.75 conversion rate which means that
out of those 1050 clicks i would be
getting 39 leads if you crunch the
numbers you'll find that i'm spending an
average of 33 dollars and 85 cents to
acquire lead to my permanent listings
bear in mind that out of those leads i
may not even close every single one of
them or even one of them but assuming
you fine-tune that you should be good
and that could be the case with seo as
well if i want to increase my spending
am i targeting to additional keywords i
may even spend double triple quadruple
that per month now this is only viable
as a temporary solution or something
that i do in conjunction with seo
while you're ramping that up if i were
targeting the same keyword in seo and i
ended up ranking number one i would be
getting roughly 10
493 visitors a month that's almost 13
221 dollars in paid ad traffic value
each and every single month so yeah it
could take some time to get to page one
or even ranked number one and you may
not get there but there's a massive roi
on seo and better than pay-per-click
but here's the thing
i don't look at pay-per-click as
something that you just do until you
ramp up your seo if you're spending a
dollar on pay-per-click and it makes you
two dollars or five dollars or ten
dollars and is profitable for your cost
why wouldn't you keep doing it you
should keep doing both over time
focus on seo for the long run paid ads
on the short run and long run but you
need to be doing both the roi is better
in seo but it doesn't mean that there's
not a roi in both so don't worry if the
roi is lower in one versus the other you
could be doing both if you need help
with either of them check out my ad
agency np digital if you enjoyed this
video like it share it tell people about
it thank you for watching